# React Basics
### React is a JavaScript library for creating user interfaces. It is the most popular JS front-end framework in use today. It was released by Facebook in 2013 and they still use it today for many of their applications. Manly it is used in three places:
## Web development
This is where React got its start and where we will find it used most often. React is component-based framework. An example of a component could be a form or even just a form field or button on a website. We could build up complete applications using such components by simply nesting them. Components in React can manage their own state and communicate that state to child components. By “state” we mean the data that populates web application. An example would be a user profile form that holds the state of the user’s data, including first name, last name, and other values. This form component would have nested field components that it passes its state to in order to populate them. Components in React are also reusable, which means we can use one button component for every button on the site. If we need the button to look different, we can simply change its style.
## Mobile app development
React’s role in mobile app development is to connect the mobile user interface of the application to the phone’s operating system. We can apply web-based React Principles to create mobile apps for Android and iOS with the use of React Native, a separate terminology which is defined as a javascript framework that uses React. 
## Desktop app development
We can use React with ”Electron”, another JS library, to create cross-platform desktop apps. Some examples that are built with Electron includes Visual Studio Code, Slack, Skype, Discord, WhatsApp, and WordPress Desktop.
